t/335: Created the Content Security Policy guide (#1484)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/builds/guides/integration/csp.md

---
# Scope:
# * Guide developers through the Content Security Policy directives that have an impact on the editor.
# * List the recommended Content Security Policy settings.
# * List the minimal Content Security Policy settings.

category: builds-integration
order: 70
---

# Content Security Policy

CKEditor 5 is compatible with applications that use [<abbr title="Content Security Policy">CSP</abbr> rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) and helps developers build secure web.

## Recommended CSP configuration

The recommended CSP configuration that allows the rich text editor to run out–of–the–box with all standard features using the content like images or media from external hosts looks as follows:

```
default-src 'none'; connect-src 'self'; script-src 'self'; img-src * data:; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'; frame-src *
```

## Impact of CSP on editor features

> Some CSP directives have an impact on certain rich text editor features. Here's the round-up of directives and their specific roles in the editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some CSP directives have an impact on certain rich text editor features. Here is the round-up of directives and their specific roles in the editor:
```

* `default-src 'none'`: resets the policy and blocks everything. All successive directives work as a white–list. By itself, as long as followed by other directives, it has no impact on the editor.
* `connect-src 'self'`
	* Allows the {@link features/image-upload editor upload features} to use [XMLHttpReqests](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest) (AJAX) to upload files to the server, for instance when an image is pasted or dropped into the editor content. The `'self`' value ensures the requests remain within the same host.

> 	* Allows {@link builds/guides/integration/saving-data#autosave-feature auto–saving editor data} using XMLHttpReqests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* Allows {@link builds/guides/integration/saving-data#autosave-feature auto–saving editor data} using `XMLHttpRequest`.
```

> 	**Note**: To use {@link features/ckfinder CKFinder} hosted from another domain, make sure the domain is also included in the directive value.

Reviewer: Extract all things about CKF to its own guide. It's not CKE's issue. Link to that guide, though.

Author: I removed the notes about CKF. To be linked when an appropriate guide in CKF is created.

* `style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'`: `'unsafe-inline'` is necessary for:
	* webpack's [style-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/style-loader) to load {@link framework/guides/theme-customization#styles-processing-and-bundling editor UI styles}.

    **Note**: You can {@link builds/guides/integration/advanced-setup#option-extracting-css extract styles to a separate `.css` file} during the editor building process and remove this directive.
	* certain editor content styles to work properly. For instance, you are going to need it if you want to enable editor features like {@link features/font Font} or {@link features/text-alignment Text alignment} or any other feature that uses inline `style="..."` attributes in the content.
* `frame-src *`: Necessary for the {@link features/media-embed Media embed} feature to load media with previews (containing `<iframe>`).

    **Note**: Use the more strict `frame-src 'self'` if all the media in the edited content come from the same domain as your application.

> ## Minimal configuration

Reviewer: Minimal sounds like "the weakest". I'd try something like "Strictest possible configuration".

> Knowing the role of each directive, the most strict set of rules that allows CKEditor 5 to run is as follows:

Reviewer: s/most strict/strictest
